President stresses self-reliance in science, technology President Xi Jinping has reiterated that the dynamic zero-COVID policy has proved to be "correct "and "effective" in the nation's response to COVID-19 outbreaks, saying that the "herd immunity "approach would cause unimaginable consequences in such a populous country as China. Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks on Tuesday during an inspection tour of Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province. The city reported the first case of COVID-19 in China. He visited a residential community and a high-tech enterprise in Wuhan, and highlighted the importance of coordinating the COVID response and socioeconomic development, as well as improving the nation's independence and self-reliance in science and technology. While visiting the Zhiyuan Community, Xi commended the city's regular epidemic prevention and control efforts, saying that since Wuhan won the battle against the virus in 2020, it has encountered several outbreaks again, but it got them under control in a short time, thereby preventing massive resurgences of the virus. Practice has proved that the principle and policy adopted by the CPC Central Committee are correct and effective and must be unswervingly upheld, Xi said. Over the past more than two years, China has adhered to the overarching principle of "guarding against imported cases and preventing a resurgence of the outbreak at home" and the dynamic zero-COVID policy to combat the pandemic. Noting that the pandemic is a big test, Xi said that the nation's dynamic adjustment of epidemic control measures has protected people's lives, safety and health to the maximum extent. Implementing the dynamic zero-COVID policy is determined by the CPC Central Committee in line with the Party's nature and its founding purpose as well as national conditions, he said. It is better to temporarily affect economic development than to harm people's lives and health, particularly among the elderly and children, Xi said. Judging from the effects in all aspects, the nation's epidemic prevention and control measures are the most economical and effective, he added.