A week ago, Jin Yi, who works at a counseling center in Shanghai, received a call at midnight from a neighborhood committee employee. The caller, whom Jin said sounded out of breath, said he was afraid of being unable to do his job if he was infected or quarantined as a close contact. "Social workers in neighborhoods are usually too busy helping other people to care for their own mental health. An outburst of emotions is normal during their off-work hours when there's no one around," Jin said. "It is important to identify their mental state and know their history of illness first. Then, listening to them and accompanying them is vital." According to Lian Tong, a counselor from Shanghai's official psychological counseling hotline, over 70 percent of calls since the start of the latest outbreak in Shanghai on March 1 have been related to the pandemic. "People face psychological pressure due to the virus and uncertainty about the future as they are not in a position to fulfill all their needs," said Lian, who has worked at the hotline for six years. "Some residents seek counseling to deal with negative feelings triggered by the long lockdowns. Many of these individuals have pre-existing mental illnesses. Some have family issues that have been exacerbated by the lockdown," he said. Counselors such as Lian also assist callers who need to purchase psychotropic medication by pointing them to the right sales channels. The counselors also take down the names and contact numbers of these callers before handing them over to the Shanghai Mental Health Center. According to Jin, studies have shown that threats and challenges in life incite stress-related responses. He noted that excessive and persistent psychological stress may lead to adverse outcomes such as depression or cardiovascular diseases. "Residents are unable to anticipate the development of the situation, but can deal with their emotions through positive actions to build resilience during difficult times," she said. Jin suggested that those stuck at home due to lockdowns can play games with family members to foster closer connections, write diary entries to record their thoughts and keep in touch with friends through video or phone calls. "Voluntary community work or reading books can also help manage anxiety and foster optimism," she added. Lian pointed out that having to deal with the negative emotions of callers can also affect a counselor's psychological well-being. To cope with this stress, Lian keeps up to date with the latest news, reads books and participates in group purchases for groceries and daily essentials.