The Communist Party of China does not have its own interests and Party officials should not harbor any selfish interests, said Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, urging Party officials to put all their efforts into ensuring the people live a good life. He made the remark while visiting Maona, a village in the city of Wuzhishan, on Monday, the second day of his inspection tour in the southern island province of Hainan. Xi visited the homes of local people from the Li ethnic group and had exchanges with village officials and villagers. What the CPC cares about is how to ensure that the lives of Chinese people of all ethnic groups get better and better every day, he said. Xi said that as China has completed the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, the country is now marching toward modernization and promoting common prosperity. He urged solid efforts to consolidate the achievements made in poverty alleviation and to continue to advance rural vitalization on the basis of these achievements. Earlier on Monday, Xi paid a visit to a section of a tropical rainforest national park in Wuzhishan, during which he stressed the importance of building the national park in Hainan province. Xi said it is necessary to fully understand the strategic significance of Hainan's national park development, as it is among a country's most fundamental interests and he urged continuous efforts in this regard. Hainan Tropical Rainforest National Park, which contains more than 95 percent of original forest and more than 55 percent of the natural forests on Hainan island, is among the first group of national parks that China has officially designated. It is the only place in the world where the Hainan gibbon can be found. Xi announced the establishment of China's first group of national parks when he delivered a speech via video link at the leaders' summit of the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in October.