A lot of key enterprises have resumed work and production in Shanghai, Science and Technology Daily reported on Friday. The first vehicle passed its stress test and rolled off production line after resuming work and production in Lingang automobile plant of SAIC Motor Passenger Vehicle Co on April 19. Both epidemic prevention and production have been put into top priority at the same time, said Chen Peifeng, director of Lingang automobile plant of SAIC Motor Passenger Vehicle Co. Before the stress test, a series of plans have been made for epidemic prevention and control, health screening, closed-loop management, preparedness and support, and emergency response. Eight professional teams have also been set up to comprehensively implement epidemic prevention and control measures as well as disinfect production, material storing and living areas, Chen said. On the same day, Tesla's Gigafactory in Shanghai also officially resumed production, with about 8,000 employees already working. The factory operates in a closed management mode, providing daily nucleic acid testing for all working staff members and dividing production and living areas in grids. Meanwhile, strict disinfection in the production and office areas and measures for epidemic prevention have been implemented to ensure safe production. Many other companies of the automobile industrial chain are also working together to promote the resumption of work and production to provide core components and key raw materials in Yangtze River Delta. A number of pharmaceutical companies are fully prepared to resume production in Pudong, Shanghai. TopAlliance, Medicilon, FosunKite and Obio have been carried out closed-loop operations in the containment period to ensure continuous operation of key areas. In addition, semiconductor enterprises among the first batch of 666 key enterprises to resume work and production have also coordinated the upstream and downstream of the industrial chain, effectively ensuring the company's sustainable, safe and stable operation. They restarted production through effective closed-loop operation management and under the condition of ensuring the physical and mental health of employees, the report said citing manager of Advanced Micro-Fabrication Equipment China or AMEC. Shanghai Banking and Insurance Regulatory Bureau issued 15 measures to support the resumption of work and production, Shanghai Securities News reported on Friday. These measures include increasing credit supply, stepping up financial rescue efforts, actively reducing fees and yield benefits and strengthening the industrial chain coordination in financial services for the resumption of work and production.