President Xi Jinping and Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador exchanged congratulations on Monday on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, with both leaders vowing to boost the countries' comprehensive strategic partnership. In his message sent to the Mexican president, Xi said that China and Mexico are both countries with time-honored civilizations and history, and the two countries have a long history of friendly exchanges. Since China and Mexico established diplomatic ties half a century ago, and especially since they forged a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2013, bilateral relations have been developing on a fast track, Xi said. The two countries enjoy ever deepening political mutual trust and enhanced friendly exchanges and cooperation in various areas, he added. Xi spoke of the mutual support and assistance between China and Mexico amid the COVID-19 pandemic, saying they have set a good example for international solidarity in the fight against the coronavirus. The tree of Chinese-Mexican friendship has flourished and borne bountiful fruit, bringing tangible benefits to the people of the two countries, he said. Noting that he attaches great importance to the development of China-Mexico relations, Xi said he stands ready to work with Lopez Obrador to take the anniversary as an opportunity to advance the traditional friendship between the two nations, deepen win-win cooperation, and promote common development so that the two peoples can forever be good friends who trust each other as well as good partners who share prosperity. Lopez Obrador said that over the past 50 years, Mexico and China have forged an unbreakable friendship and carried out extensive exchanges and cooperation in politics, economy, education and other areas, as exemplified by the two countries' joint fight against the pandemic. Mexico sincerely appreciates and will always remember the two countries' mutual help and support during the fight against the pandemic, he said. Saying that the Mexico-China comprehensive strategic partnership has been advancing with the times and growing ever stronger, the Mexican president noted that both countries have joined hands to address challenges at regional and multilateral levels. Lopez Obrador also said he firmly believes that bilateral relations will maintain steady and sustained development and show new vitality. Fifteen pairs of friendship cities from both countries were to present a light show in celebration of the anniversary on Monday night.