The official publication of the XXIV Olympic Winter Games is launched today to readers across the globe. On behalf of the Organizing Committee for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, I want to express my warmest congratulations. Hosting a successful Winter Olympics is China's solemn commitment to the international community. Throughout these last seven years of preparation, with help from the international community, in particular the International Olympic Committee, the support and efforts from various parties, I'm now confident to declare that the preparations for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games are all set, and we will fulfill our promise to present "streamlined, safe and splendid" Winter Games to the world. The Winter Olympics will celebrate its centenary, and the Beijing Winter Games will for sure become a new benchmark in the development of the Winter Olympics. COVID-19 continues to spread around the world and people are facing a lot of challenges. As the first Winter Olympic Games since the word "together" was added to the Olympic motto last July, Beijing will host a successful Games to enhance the friendship of the global community and boost people's confidence to fight against difficulties. As the first city to host both Summer and Winter Games, Beijing will live up to all the expectations. We will take comprehensive measures against the uncertainty of COVID-19 and provide the best services. Nearly 3,000 athletes from across the world will participate in 109 events in three competition zones-downtown Beijing, its northwest Yanqing district and co-host city Zhangjiakou in Hebei province. A global audience of over 4 billion viewers will witness and feel the charm of Beijing Winter Games through a wide range of media. Official publication the Winter Olympian, a daily Beijing 2022 newsletter, will keep readers around the world up to date with all the latest Games results, news and preparations. The Winter Olympian will give readers a true flavor of the Games, and be authoritative, accurate and timely as a comprehensive record of the Beijing Games, as well as promoting the idea of staging a "green, inclusive, open and clean" Olympic Winter Games. It will help promote the Olympic spirit, facilitate the Olympics' development and contribute to building a community with a shared future for mankind. In the pure ice and snow, a vision of an exciting future crystallizes. When the Beijing Winter Olympics start, we will welcome athletes from around the world to chase their dreams here with our great passion and comprehensive services. Great sports development will forge a great nation, and a great nation should have great sports. Inspired by the Olympic spirit, the Chinese people will have more motivation and power to fight for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation and build a brighter future. The 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics will be a milestone in the history of China. JANUARY, 2022