In congratulatory letter, he says young people represent hope, create tomorrow President Xi Jinping called on Thursday for young people in all countries to promote common human values and facilitate the implementation of the United Nations' 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. He made the remarks in a congratulatory letter to the World Youth Development Forum, which is being held from Thursday to Saturday. Around 2,000 youth representatives from more than 100 countries attended the forum's opening ceremony, which was held online and offline in several cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Nanjing. In the letter, Xi said that young people represent hope and they create tomorrow, adding that China always views young people as an important force in driving social development and encourages them to contribute to building a community with a shared future for mankind. Xi expressed the hope that the forum will be an important platform for young people to contribute to global development and for the world to drive youth development. He hoped that the forum would contribute young people's voices to promoting global unity and pool their strength in terms of global development and advancement. Young people in all countries should promote the common human values of peace, development, equality, justice, democracy and freedom, drive global development initiatives with concrete actions, facilitate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and together write a new chapter of global youth unity and cooperation, he said. At the High-level Dialogue on Global Development on June 24, Xi announced that China would hold the forum and jointly initiate the Action Plan for Global Youth Development to pool as much strength as possible for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Themed "For a Shared Future: Promoting Sustainable Development with Youth and for Youth", the forum is hosted by the All-China Youth Federation. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said via video link that the forum is a great opportunity to bring young people together to shape solutions to some of the most pressing global issues. He said that although young people have suffered as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, they have met these challenges with characteristic innovation, spirit and solidarity, reaching out to friends in need, supporting families and communities, tirelessly calling for progress and justice for people and planet alike, and urging world leaders to invest in a better and more equal future for all, and to get the Sustainable Development Goals back on track. He Junke, first secretary of the Secretariat of the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League of China, said the Chinese government has always regarded young people as the future of the country and supported them in shouldering their responsibilities and making a difference. It has always prioritized youth development, formulated and implemented youth development plans, and pushed for comprehensive progress in related undertakings, He said, adding that there are 1.8 billion young people in the world, and they have great potential and energy. "The whole world should pay more attention to their voices, believe in their strength and support them in shouldering the responsibilities of safeguarding world peace and promoting prosperity and development," he added.