There was a time in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region when contempt for the city and the motherland even appeared in the Legislative Council. In 2016, some LegCo members-elect displayed banners reading "Hong Kong independence" as they took their oath of office and were later disqualified. There was a time in Hong Kong when the chief executive could hardly do anything. Whenever he/she tried to implement a reform, there would be quarrels preventing him/her from even finishing the speech at the LegCo. There was a time when Hong Kong people would not even dare to express their patriotism, especially in the riots in 2019, where if they dared to utter some patriotic words in the street, they could face verbal or even physical violence from groups wearing black. All these had much to do with the loopholes of the old electoral system in Hong Kong, which were made use of by certain home-haters to enter the legislative body. Behind them were certain western political forces acting as bosses, while they jointly brainwashed local youngsters into becoming their pawns. All these gradually disappeared with Hong Kong having improved its electoral system in March 2021. The three elections held after that were peaceful and finally the new LegCo can work for the common good. In light of the above facts, Monday's statement by G7 foreign ministers and the High Representative of the European Union looks more ridiculous. They claimed that the number of voters eligible to participate in elections was "dramatically curtailed", but the fact is that both the election committee and the LegCo have expanded in numbers to be more widely representative; They claim that the ability of the Hong Kong people to be legitimately represented is "further eroded", but the fact is that all the elections are held legally. The G7 and EU have no power to make any rules for Hong Kong people; They call for the new chief executive to respect the Basic Law, but it is they that funded home-haters in Hong Kong to trample upon the Basic Law there. It is they that openly supported "Hong Kong independence" and paid rioters dollars to do bad things in the street. The new electoral system and the election results will further benefit Hong Kong people. The G7 and EU are the only sides that suffer, because under the "patriots administer Hong Kong" principle, they can no longer find any agents to hurt Hong Kong's interests from within, which is why they issued the statement. Their comments will be recorded in history and proven wrong in the long run by Hong Kong's continued prosperity. Follow the writer on Twitter: @zzxang86