Collection of speeches from 2013 to 2021 tracks China's foreign policy evolution, experts say Research on China's foreign policy will be greatly assisted by a newly released publication－the first and second volumes of a collection of speeches on diplomacy made by President Xi Jinping. Published recently by the Central Party Literature Press, the two volumes include 136 speeches delivered by Xi at international events between March 2013 and November 2021. These books will help the world better understand Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, help ensure that China's diplomatic agenda is better received and bolster its teamwork with partners across the globe in pursuing sustained growth, peace and overcoming uncertainties, experts said. They made the observation as the two volumes offer a panoramic view of the original ideas, propositions and initiatives put forward by Xi at venues such as summits, symposiums and academic institutions. Since 2013, Xi has had a packed diplomatic schedule, making 41 trips abroad to a total of 69 countries. The two volumes contain the full text of Xi's speeches, such as the one made at the United Nations Office at Geneva in 2017, which will help readers better understand how the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind was proposed and developed. Readers may also find answers to how to address the world's gap in development and challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic by reading Xi's speech at the general debate of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly last September. In this speech, Xi proposed the Global Development Initiative which has now received support from over 100 countries. Xu Bu, secretary-general of Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy Studies Center and president of the China Institute of International Studies, said that as manifested by these two volumes, Xi's proposal on building a community with a shared future for mankind and his putting forward the Global Development Initiative "serve as an essential way to deal with transnational problems and resolve global crises". Currently, the world's economic development is unbalanced, and infectious diseases have been rampant for quite a long time, Xu noted. "Also, Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy sharply contrasts with outdated ways of thinking that pursue a zero-sum game and power politics," Xu said. "Displaying wisdom, insight and unique ideas on major issues concerning mankind's development, Xi provides China's solutions to global challenges and points out the direction for the progress and development of the entire human community," he added. Wang Fan, vice-president of China Foreign Affairs University, said: "Xi's informative speeches on diplomacy show that great perspectives on history, the big picture and a country's role are key to better tracking the evolving world." As shown by these two volumes, Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy has profound depth in perceiving the world's political landscape, and it outlines fresh tasks for coordinating and advancing the country's diplomatic missions based on the world's transformations and transitions, Wang said. "We should take note of two facts: China's ability to shape, influence and motivate the world is improving; and there is a great need for China to further boost trust with countries and overcome their doubts," Wang said. Wang Wen, executive dean of the Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies of Renmin University of China, said the collection of speeches "is a testimony to how Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy draws from and concentrates the diplomatic wisdom and success of the country, Party and its people". The Thought deserves greater academic efforts from home and abroad in its research, Wang said. "In his speeches, Xi accurately elaborated on China's policy toward its neighbors based on amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness," said Lyu Chao, dean of Liaoning University's Institute of America and East Asia Studies. Xi's speeches show that China is ready to share opportunities for common development with neighbors, Lyu added. Shen Yi, a professor and director of Fudan University's Center for Cyberspace Governance Studies in Shanghai, said the two volumes help outline Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy's "well-founded architecture of theories, detailed planning and respective policy practices". "And his proposal of building a community with a shared future for mankind displays China's self-driven open mind and inclusive approach to the world," Shen added.